Update v2-oauth-ropc.md (#1347)
MicrosoftDocs/entra-docs: docs/identity-platform/v2-oauth-ropc.md

The Microsoft identity platform supports the [OAuth 2.0 Resource Owner Password Credentials (ROPC) grant](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.3), which allows an application to sign in the user by directly handling their password.  This article describes how to program directly against the protocol in your application.  When possible, we recommend you use the supported Microsoft Authentication Libraries (MSAL) instead to [acquire tokens and call secured web APIs](authentication-flows-app-scenarios.md#scenarios-and-supported-authentication-flows).  Also take a look at the [sample apps that use MSAL](sample-v2-code.md).

> [!WARNING]

> > Microsoft recommends you do *not* use the ROPC flow; it's incompatible with Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). In most scenarios, more secure alternatives are available and recommended. This flow requires a very high degree of trust in the application, and carries risks that aren't present in other flows. You should only use this flow when more secure flows aren't viable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Microsoft recommends you do *not* use the ROPC flow due to incompatibility with Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). In most scenarios, more secure alternatives are available and recommended. This flow requires a very high degree of trust in the application, and carries risks that aren't present in other flows. You should only use this flow when more secure flows aren't viable.
```

> > Microsoft recommends you do *not* use the ROPC flow. It is not compatible with Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). In most scenarios, more secure alternatives are available and recommended. This flow requires a very high degree of trust in the application, and carries risks that are not present in other flows. You should only use this flow when other more secure flows aren't viable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Microsoft recommends you do *not* use the ROPC flow; it's incompatible with Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). In most scenarios, more secure alternatives are available and recommended. This flow requires a very high degree of trust in the application, and carries risks that aren't present in other flows. You should only use this flow when more secure flows aren't viable.
```

> * An exception to a hybrid identity federation scenario would be the following: Home Realm Discovery policy with **AllowCloudPasswordValidation** set to TRUE will enable ROPC flow to work for federated users when an on-premises password is synced to the cloud. For more information, see [Enable direct ROPC authentication of federated users for legacy applications](~/identity/enterprise-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy.md#enable-direct-ropc-authentication-of-federated-users-for-legacy-applications).
> * Passwords with leading or trailing whitespaces are not supported by the ROPC flow.

## How to migrate away from ROPC

> MFA is becoming prevalent, and some Microsoft web APIs will only accept access tokens if they have passed the MFA requirements. Applications and test rigs relying on ROPC will be locked out&mdash;either Entra will refuse to issue the token or the resource will reject it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As MFA becomes more prevalent, certain Microsoft web APIs will now only accept access tokens if they have passed MFA requirements. Applications and test rigs relying on ROPC will be locked out as Microsoft Entra will either refuse to issue the token or the resource will reject it.
```

If you are using ROPC to acquire tokens to call protected downstream APIs, migrate to a secure token acquisition strategy:

### When user context is available

> If you are an end-user of an application, such as Azure CLI, use an interactive method for authentication. Avoid ROPC or Device Code options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an end-user of an application, such as the Azure CLI, use an interactive method for authentication. Avoid ROPC or Device Code options.
```

> If you are an app developer, who needs to access a resource, use a form of interactive authentication. The user can be only challenged for MFA if shown a browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an app developer who needs to access a resource, use a form of interactive authentication. The user can be only challenged for MFA when prompted in the browser.
```

- For web applications where the authentication is done in the front-end, see [Single Page Application](./sample-v2-code.md?tabs=apptype#single-page-applications)
- For web applications where the authentication is done in the back-end, see [Web Applications](./sample-v2-code.md?tabs=apptype#web-applications)
- Web APIs cannot display a browser. Instead, they must return a challenge back to the client. Clients must be able to understand this challenge. For details, see [Web APIs](./sample-v2-code.md?tabs=apptype#web-api) and [challenging users in web APIs](v2-oauth2-on-behalf-of-flow.md#error-response-example).
- Desktop applications should use broker-based authentication. Brokers use browser-based authentication, so they can enforce MFA, and also enable the most secure posture possible.
- Mobile applications should also be configured to use broker (Authenticator, Company Portal) based authentication.

### When user context is not available

> In these scenarios where there is no user context, for example a script running as part of a CI pipeline, or a service needing to call a resource on behalf of itself, with no user details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of scenarios where no user context is involved can be, but is not limited to, the following:

- A script running as part of a CI pipeline.
- A service needing to call a resource on behalf of itself, with no user details.

```
We may need to add something like this to provide context for the following section - is this sentence required?

> In these scenarios where there is no user context, for example a script running as part of a CI pipeline, or a service needing to call a resource on behalf of itself, with no user details.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this sentence is trying to say. Try rewording it.

> If you are an end-user of an application, such as Azure CLI, use service principal login methods such as certificates, managed identities, or federated identities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are an end-user of an application, such as Azure CLI, use service principal login methods such as certificates, managed identities, or federated identities.
```

> If you are an end-user of an application, such as Azure CLI, use service principal login methods such as certificates, managed identitities or federated identities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an end-user of an application, such as Azure CLI, use service principal login methods such as certificates, managed identities, or federated identities.
```

> If you are an application developer, the recommendation is to use [Service Principal authentication](./identity-platform/app-objects-and-service-principals.md), which are illustrated in the [Daemon samples](./sample-v2-code.md?tabs=apptype#service--daemon). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an application developer, the recommendation is to use [Service Principal authentication](app-objects-and-service-principals.md), which is illustrated in the [Daemon samples](./sample-v2-code.md?tabs=apptype#service--daemon). 
```

There are multiple ways to authenticate as a service principal:

> - If your app is running on Azure infrastructure, use [Managed Identity](./../identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview.md). This eliminates the overhead of maintaining and rotating secrets and certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If your app is running on Azure infrastructure, use [Managed Identity](./../identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview.md). Managed Identity eliminates the overhead of maintaining and rotating secrets and certificates.
```

- If your app is running on a system managed by another OAuth2 compliant Identity Provider, such as GitHub, use [Federated Identity Credentials](./../workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust.md?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp). 

> - If you cannot use a Managed Identity or a Federated Identity, use a certificate credential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you cannot use a Managed Identity or a Federated Identity, use a [certificate credential](certificate-credentials.md).
```

> * An exception to a hybrid identity federation scenario would be the following: Home Realm Discovery policy with **AllowCloudPasswordValidation** set to TRUE will enable ROPC flow to work for federated users when an on-premises password is synced to the cloud. For more information, see [Enable direct ROPC authentication of federated users for legacy applications](~/identity/enterprise-apps/home-realm-discovery-policy.md#enable-direct-ropc-authentication-of-federated-users-for-legacy-applications).
> * Passwords with leading or trailing whitespaces are not supported by the ROPC flow.

## How to migrate away from ROPC

> As MFA becomes more prevalent, certain Microsoft web APIs will only accept access tokens if they have passed MFA requirements. Applications and test rigs relying on ROPC will be locked out as Microsoft Entra will either refuse to issue the token or the resource will reject it.

Reviewer 2: Replace "it" at the end of this sentence with the noun. Should it be replaced with something like "request"?

> As MFA becomes more prevalent, certain Microsoft web APIs will only accept access tokens if they have passed MFA requirements. Applications and test rigs relying on ROPC will be locked out as Microsoft Entra will either refuse to issue the token or the resource will reject it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As MFA becomes more prevalent, certain Microsoft web APIs will only accept access tokens if they have passed MFA requirements. Applications and test rigs relying on ROPC will be locked out as Microsoft Entra will either refuse to issue the token or the resource will reject the request.
```
making change per author's suggestion

If you are using ROPC to acquire tokens to call protected downstream APIs, migrate to a secure token acquisition strategy:

> ### When user context is available

Reviewer 4: Are we targeting end-users or app owners?  I don't think ROPC or device code flow will be terms that end-users will be able to understand.

Reviewer 3: @bgavrilMS Can you respond to this comment?

Author: You are right. I was thinking of "end-users" that use dev tools like `az cli`. But for all intents and purposes, those are still app developers. I removed those sentences.

> If you are an end-user of an application, such as the Azure CLI, use an interactive method for authentication. Avoid using the ROPC or Device Code flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an end-user of an application, such as the Azure CLI, use an interactive method for authentication. Avoid using the ROPC or [Device Code flow](v2-oauth2-device-code.md).
```

## Learn more

For an example implementation of the ROPC flow, see the [.NET console application](https://github.com/azure-samples/active-directory-dotnetcore-console-up-v2) code sample on GitHub.

> o

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
